# Elastic compute cloud
## Overview
- EC2 is like a Virtual Machine
- Select the capacity you need right now
- Grow and shrink when needed
- Pay for what you use
- Wait minutes, not months

## EC2 Instance pricing
- On demand: The most flexible, pay by the hour or the second depending on the type of instance.
- Spot: Purchase unused capacity at a discount of up to 90%. Great for applications with flexible start and end times.
- Reserved: Reserved capacity for 1 or 3 years. Up to 72% discount on the hourly charge. Great if you have known, fixed requirements.
- Dedicated: A physical EC2 server dedicated for your use. Great if you have server-bound licenses to reuse or compliance requirements

## AWS CLI
- Always use the least privilege rule
- Use Groups for permissions
- Secret access key: you only see it once so save it in a safe place otherwise you'll have to regenerate it
- Don't share your key pairs. Only one user per key pair.
- Supports Lunix, Windows and MacOS.

## Using roles
- Best Practice: Use roles
- Avoid hard coding your credentials: roles provide access without the use of access keys
- Policies: Control role permissions
- Updates: You can update a policy and it will take effect immediately
- Attaching and Detaching: You can attach or detach roles to running EC2 Instances without having to stop or terminate these instances.

## Security Groups
- Changes to security groups take effect immediately
- You can have any number of EC2 instances in a security group
- You can have multiple security groups attached to EC2 instances
- All inbound traffic is blocked by default
- All outbound traffic is allowed

## Bootstrap script
A Bootstrap script is a script that runs when the instance first runs. It passes user data to the EC2 and can be used to install applications as well as do updates and more.

## Comparing user data and metadata
- User data: Bootstrap scripts
- Metadata: data about your EC2 instance. You can use bootstrap scripts to access metadata.

## Networking with EC2
- ENI: For basic networking. Perhaps you need a separate management network from your production network or a separate logging network, and you need to do this at low cost. In this scenario, use multiple ENIs for each network.
- Enhanced Networking: For when you need speeds between 10-100 Gbps. Anywhere you need reliable, high throughput. 
- EFA: For when you need to accelerate High performance computing (HPC) and machine learning applications or if you need to do an OS-bypass. 

## Optimizing with EC2 placement groups
- Cluster placement groups: low network latency, high network throughput
- Spread placement groups: Individual critical EC2 instances
- Partition placement groups: Multiple EC2 instances, HDFS, HBase and Cassandra.
- A cluster placement groups can't span multiple AZs, whereas a spread and a partition placement group can.
- Only certain types of instances can be launched in a placement group (compute optimized, GPU, memory optimized, storage optimized)
- AWS recommends homogeneous instances within cluster placement groups
- Placement groups can't be merged
- You can move an existing instance into a placement group via the AWS CLI or an SDK.

## Question tips
- Dedicated Host: Any question that talks about special licensing requirements. An EC2 Dedicated Host is a physical server with EC2 instance capacity fully dedicated to your use. It allows you to use your existing pre-socket, per core or per VM software licenses.
- Spot instances and spot fleet: 
  - Spot instances save up to 90% of the cost of on-demand instances.
  - You can block Spot Instances from terminating by using Spot block
  - Useful for any type of computing where you don't need persistent storage.
  - A spot fleet is a collection of spot instances and optionally, on-demand instances.

